We also have an option of using the route pseudo class selector where we're styling the root element
of the document which in our case is gonna be h the email document and right off the bat I can tell
that this is probably gonna be used mostly for general styles as well as we all gonna use it with C
assessed variables that we haven't covered yet.
Now this is gonna work well first of all let's get rid of all this old garbage.
Well not really garbage but I just needed to use some kind of word.
So let's get rid of the old code then in the indexation email we're going to add or not create adding
one.
That's not what I wanted to do.
So I'd like to delete them here and let's start by having one.
And this is gonna be simple heading one having one.
Let's say I am heading and then let's add two paragraphs now for the paragraphs though I would want
to have two classes of there's gonna be paragraph with Lauren so not 20 words as well as I would like
to add the class.
Now the class is going to be absolute doesn't really matter how you call the class as long as you as
always remember how to actually start in a C assess meaning you remembered a name so you can access
the class and here let's say responsive then we're gonna have a look at what would be the difference
within the root element.
So far so good.
So we have all reached the email now for the road.
Again we're gonna do something like this.
And the most basic way would be doing well let's say background is going to be read.
Now again this is something we already have covered.
So obviously if we're selecting the h a melon we're saying that the background should be read.
What happens is that since this is very much the route of oral document just because we start this thread
obviously right now we're gonna have the background right.
So far so good.
Very simple.
Now if this is annoying or can just come into out maybe some of you hate the red color especially since
it's for the whole background.
But what is more interesting and what it would be the cases apart from CFS variables that we haven't
covered but we will gonna cover later.
And again I'm willing to revisit the root because this we're all gonna be setting up the variables but
where else we can use the root.
Now we can use it for general styles so let's say that I would have a heading one and in the font size
is here.
I don't know could be anything as long as you're using the harem.
So I'm just gonna say font size is gonna be three areas.
So remember this was responsive values.
However they were responsive towards the root so they were responsive as the root was changing.
Okay.
What about the paragraph that was absolute.
Let's use actually the absolute values which would be pixels.
And you're gonna say font size of 20 pixels.
Now we're also trying to do is for the responsive one.
I had the same value just with our M values because remember the whole idea was like this.
That one our M was actually 16 pixels correct.
That was the default one coming from the browser.
So this should be exactly the same.
So the question here is for the responsive one.
If I'm gonna add let's say one point five.
What is that going to be.
Well if we do a little bit of math we know on that sixteen one point five meaning this would be 24 because
we had one full sixteen and then we would add eight.
So in that case we would be getting exactly the same 24.
Now if you don't believe me think you can just check it out here in the browser and we'll see the both
of them are exactly the same.
So where does the root element come in right now.
Well we already know that the reason why we're using the arms is that lets say if the user would like
to change the font size.
So if the user of the like you know what I don't like how the sponsor lets say too big or too small
so the user cannot go always actually to their settings and the way we go to the settings again we click
on this icon then we're looking for the settings and then within the settings we have the font size.
So what happens is if we're gonna change this let's say to the very large the text that was used with
our Iams is going to become very large.
Now don't believe me.
Notice this is large already we know this but we cannot see it technically that this was bigger than
it used to be.
However we can see it here with due paragraph where previously they were exactly the same because they
were 24 pixels.
The moment we change the settings on a user because this is depending on the settings on a user.
Now this is getting much more bigger.
Okay so that was just something we already have covered.
Let me put this back on a medium just so we can see that again most of them are going to be exactly
the same.
And now let's look at the root element.
So what's happening is if we're gonna be styling something relative the route we can go back to the
route and we can change these settings.
So let's say in this case our styling everything towards the road.
So my heading one was three our Amazon obviously most likely you're going to have your paragraphs that
are gonna be smaller.
However they were smaller relative to the route.
So if I'm gonna make a change here of let's say font size and if I'm going to start changing with the
percentages if I'm going to say 100 percent nothing is going to change because this is still going to
mean 16 pixels.
However if we're gonna go hundred and fifty pixels notice what happens.
So now we're increasing the value here by these 50 percent but this was relative to the actual route.
So everything that we can change within this property in the road what we're going to have is the responsive
values but again the absolute one didn't change because absolute was just 24 pixels.
And I'm good to go.
The relative one is the one that you can say okay this is gonna be three arms.
So relative to the road.
So if you're going to be changing something let's say you can make the whole document whole what page
whole whatever application and at the end of the day you can be like Yeah well three arms is OK.
And one point five but I would want to make it bigger so you can head over back to the road and you
can just change these values and it will gonna be affected all throughout the document where you use
the responsive values that are related to the root.